README.md, before:

# Experimental Spin SDK for .NET based on NativeAOT-LLVM

This is an in-progress [Spin](https://github.com/fermyon/spin) SDK for .NET
based on the experimental
[NativeAOT-LLVM](https://github.com/dotnet/runtimelab/tree/feature/NativeAOT-LLVM)
fork of the .NET runtime.

As of this writing, .NET support for WASIp2 is still under development, so this
library relies on unofficial builds of the NativeAOT-LLVM compiler and standard
library.  Once WASIp2 support has been fully merged into the
`feature/NativeAOT-LLVM` branch and CI has been updated to publish official
packages for all major platforms (i.e. Windows, MacOS, and Linux), we'll switch
to those and publish an official package for this library.  Meanwhile, you'll
need to download the artifacts manually and point NuGet to them as described
below.

## Running the Sample(s)

### Prerequisite(s)

- [.NET 9.0 Preview 6 or later](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/9.0)
- [Spin 2.7.0 or later](https://github.com/fermyon/spin/releases/tag/v2.7.0)

Also, we need to download a few pre-release packages and tell NuGet where to
find them.  Set `platform=linux-arm64`, `platform=linux-x64`,
`platform=win-x64`, or `platform=osx-arm64` and run:

```
mkdir packages
curl -LO --output-dir packages https://github.com/dicej/spin-dotnet-sdk/releases/download/canary/Fermyon.Spin.SDK.0.1.0-dev.nupkg
curl -LO --output-dir packages https://github.com/dicej/spin-dotnet-sdk/releases/download/canary/Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM.9.0.0-dev.nupkg
curl -LO --output-dir packages https://github.com/dicej/spin-dotnet-sdk/releases/download/canary/runtime.wasi-wasm.Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM.9.0.0-dev.nupkg
curl -LO --output-dir packages https://github.com/dicej/spin-dotnet-sdk/releases/download/canary/runtime.$platform.Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM.9.0.0-dev.nupkg
export NUGET_LOCAL_PATH=$(pwd)/packages
```

### Building and Running

#### Hello World!

```
cd samples/http-hello
spin build -u
```

While Spin is running, you can switch to another terminal and run e.g.

```
curl -i localhost:3000
```

which should yield something like:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
content-type: text/plain
transfer-encoding: chunked
date: Fri, 02 Aug 2024 19:45:33 GMT

hello, world!
```

#### Streaming and Outbound Requests

```
cd samples/http-streams
spin build -u
```

Then, in another terminal, use `curl` to send a request to the app:

```
curl -i -H 'content-type: text/plain' --data-binary @- localhost:3000/echo <<EOF
’Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe:
All mimsy were the borogoves,
      And the mome raths outgrabe.
EOF
```

The above should echo the request body in the response.

In addition to the `/echo` endpoint, the app supports a `/hash-all` endpoint
which concurrently downloads one or more URLs and streams the SHA-256 hashes of
their contents.  You can test it with e.g.:

```
curl -i \
    -H 'url: https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/' \
    -H 'url: https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/wasm/' \
    -H 'url: https://bytecodealliance.org/' \
    localhost:3000/hash-all
```

Please file an issue if you have any trouble.

## TODOs and Open Questions

- This currently borrows (and tweaks) some MSBuild configuration from [componentize-dotnet](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/componentize-dotnet).  We should upstream the changes and use the `ByteCodeAlliance.Componentize.DotNet.WitBindgen` package instead.
- Currently, application code must explicitly add the `runtime.wasi-wasm.Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM` and `runtime.${os}-${arch}.Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM` `PackageReference`s as well as the `Fermyon.Spin.SDK` reference.  Is it possible to use only the latter and have the former pulled in automatically?

Commit message:

add glibc 2.38 to prerequisites (#4)
Signed-off-by: Matthew Fisher <matt.fisher@fermyon.com>

README.md, after:

# Experimental Spin SDK for .NET based on NativeAOT-LLVM

This is an in-progress [Spin](https://github.com/fermyon/spin) SDK for .NET
based on the experimental
[NativeAOT-LLVM](https://github.com/dotnet/runtimelab/tree/feature/NativeAOT-LLVM)
fork of the .NET runtime.

As of this writing, .NET support for WASIp2 is still under development, so this
library relies on unofficial builds of the NativeAOT-LLVM compiler and standard
library.  Once WASIp2 support has been fully merged into the
`feature/NativeAOT-LLVM` branch and CI has been updated to publish official
packages for all major platforms (i.e. Windows, MacOS, and Linux), we'll switch
to those and publish an official package for this library.  Meanwhile, you'll
need to download the artifacts manually and point NuGet to them as described
below.

## Running the Sample(s)

### Prerequisite(s)

- [.NET 9.0 Preview 6 or later](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/9.0)
- [Spin 2.7.0 or later](https://github.com/fermyon/spin/releases/tag/v2.7.0)
- glibc 2.38 or later (available on Ubuntu 24.04 - see
  [dotnet/runtimelab#2605](https://github.com/dotnet/runtimelab/pull/2605))

Also, we need to download a few pre-release packages and tell NuGet where to
find them.  Set `platform=linux-arm64`, `platform=linux-x64`,
`platform=win-x64`, or `platform=osx-arm64` and run:

```
mkdir packages
curl -LO --output-dir packages https://github.com/dicej/spin-dotnet-sdk/releases/download/canary/Fermyon.Spin.SDK.0.1.0-dev.nupkg
curl -LO --output-dir packages https://github.com/dicej/spin-dotnet-sdk/releases/download/canary/Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM.9.0.0-dev.nupkg
curl -LO --output-dir packages https://github.com/dicej/spin-dotnet-sdk/releases/download/canary/runtime.wasi-wasm.Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM.9.0.0-dev.nupkg
curl -LO --output-dir packages https://github.com/dicej/spin-dotnet-sdk/releases/download/canary/runtime.$platform.Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM.9.0.0-dev.nupkg
export NUGET_LOCAL_PATH=$(pwd)/packages
```

### Building and Running

#### Hello World!

```
cd samples/http-hello
spin build -u
```

While Spin is running, you can switch to another terminal and run e.g.

```
curl -i localhost:3000
```

which should yield something like:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
content-type: text/plain
transfer-encoding: chunked
date: Fri, 02 Aug 2024 19:45:33 GMT

hello, world!
```

#### Streaming and Outbound Requests

```
cd samples/http-streams
spin build -u
```

Then, in another terminal, use `curl` to send a request to the app:

```
curl -i -H 'content-type: text/plain' --data-binary @- localhost:3000/echo <<EOF
’Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe:
All mimsy were the borogoves,
      And the mome raths outgrabe.
EOF
```

The above should echo the request body in the response.

In addition to the `/echo` endpoint, the app supports a `/hash-all` endpoint
which concurrently downloads one or more URLs and streams the SHA-256 hashes of
their contents.  You can test it with e.g.:

```
curl -i \
    -H 'url: https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/' \
    -H 'url: https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/wasm/' \
    -H 'url: https://bytecodealliance.org/' \
    localhost:3000/hash-all
```

Please file an issue if you have any trouble.

## TODOs and Open Questions

- This currently borrows (and tweaks) some MSBuild configuration from [componentize-dotnet](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/componentize-dotnet).  We should upstream the changes and use the `ByteCodeAlliance.Componentize.DotNet.WitBindgen` package instead.
- Currently, application code must explicitly add the `runtime.wasi-wasm.Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM` and `runtime.${os}-${arch}.Microsoft.DotNet.ILCompiler.LLVM` `PackageReference`s as well as the `Fermyon.Spin.SDK` reference.  Is it possible to use only the latter and have the former pulled in automatically?
